================================================
#lightning-dev: April 12th lightning-dev meeting
================================================


Meeting started by niftynei at 20:05:03 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
https://lightningd.github.io/meetings/april_12th_lightning_dev_meeting/2021/april_12th_lightning_dev_meeting.2021-04-12-20.05.log.html
.



Meeting summary
---------------

* benchmarking study by joostjgr  (niftynei, 20:06:01)
  * LINK: https://twitter.com/joostjgr/status/1376925022292443141?s=20
    (niftynei, 20:06:13)

* per_commitment_secret must be a valid secret key  (niftynei, 20:25:25)
  * LINK: https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lightning-rfc/pull/859
    (niftynei, 20:25:30)

* Discuss lightning network architecture diagram  (niftynei, 20:28:36)
  * LINK:
    https://lists.linuxfoundation.org/pipermail/lightning-dev/2021-April/002990.html
    (niftynei, 20:29:03)
  * LINK:
    https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/f/f9/Lightning_Network_Protocol_Suite.png
    (cdecker, 20:29:09)
  * LINK: https://prezi.com/  (niftynei, 20:44:53)

* upfront payments / DoS protection  (niftynei, 20:47:09)
  * LINK: https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lightning-rfc/pull/843
    (niftynei, 20:47:29)



Meeting ended at 21:06:29 UTC.



People present (lines said)
---------------------------

* niftynei (54)
* roasbeef (53)
* t-bast (50)
* cdecker (49)
* BlueMatt (48)
* ariard (21)
* lnd-bot (3)
* lndev-bot (3)
* bitconner (1)
* devrandom (1)
* vincenzopalazzo (1)



Generated by `MeetBot`_ 0.1.4