============================
#lightning-dev: Spec Meeting
============================


Meeting started by t-bast at 19:01:57 UTC.  The full logs are available
at
https://lightningd.github.io/meetings/spec_meeting/2021/spec_meeting.2021-03-15-19.01.log.html
.



Meeting summary
---------------

* LINK: https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lightning-rfc/issues/853
  (t-bast, 19:02:16)
* Update closing fee requirement for anchor outputs  (t-bast, 19:02:34)
  * LINK: https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lightning-rfc/pull/847
    (t-bast, 19:02:42)
  * ACTION: t-bast to add a tlv to signal accepted feerate bounds in
    `shutdown`  (t-bast, 19:30:18)

* Discuss implementation priorities for 2021  (t-bast, 19:34:20)



Meeting ended at 20:24:20 UTC.



Action items, by person
-----------------------

* t-bast
  * t-bast to add a tlv to signal accepted feerate bounds in `shutdown`



People present (lines said)
---------------------------

* t-bast (81)
* roasbeef (66)
* ariard (42)
* niftynei (33)
* rusty (19)
* joost (13)
* cdecker (10)
* ThomasV (5)
* lndbot (4)
* lndev-bot (3)
* bitconner (2)
* jkczyz (1)
* gribble (1)



Generated by `MeetBot`_ 0.1.4