<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN">
<html>
<head>
<meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html;charset=UTF-8">
<title>#lightning-dev: Spec Meeting</title>
<style type="text/css">
/* This is for the .html in the HTML2 writer */
body {
    font-family: Helvetica, sans-serif;
    font-size:14px;
}
h1 {
    text-align: center;
}
a {
    color:navy;
    text-decoration: none;
    border-bottom:1px dotted navy;
}
a:hover {
    text-decoration:none;
    border-bottom: 0;
    color:#0000B9;
}
hr {
    border: 1px solid #ccc;
}
/* The (nick, time) item pairs, and other body text things. */
.details {
    font-size: 12px;
    font-weight:bold;
}
/* The 'AGREED:', 'IDEA', etc, prefix to lines. */
.itemtype {
    font-style: normal;    /* un-italics it */
    font-weight: bold;
}
/* Example: change single item types.  Capitalized command name.
/* .TOPIC  {  color:navy;  } */
/* .AGREED {  color:lime;  } */

</style>
</head>

<body>
<h1>#lightning-dev: Spec Meeting</h1>
<span class="details">
Meeting started by t-bast at 19:01:57 UTC
(<a href="spec_meeting.2021-03-15-19.01.log.html">full logs</a>).</span>

<br><br>



<h3>Meeting summary</h3>
<ol>
<li>
<ol type="a">
  <li><a
    href="https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lightning-rfc/issues/853">https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lightning-rfc/issues/853</a>
    <span class="details">(<a
    href='spec_meeting.2021-03-15-19.01.log.html#l-6'>t-bast</a>,
    19:02:16)</span></li>
</ol>
<br></li>
<li><b class="TOPIC">Update closing fee requirement for anchor outputs</b> <span class="details">(<a href='spec_meeting.2021-03-15-19.01.log.html#l-9'>t-bast</a>, 19:02:34)</span>
<ol type="a">
  <li><a
    href="https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lightning-rfc/pull/847">https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lightning-rfc/pull/847</a>
    <span class="details">(<a
    href='spec_meeting.2021-03-15-19.01.log.html#l-10'>t-bast</a>,
    19:02:42)</span></li>
  <li><i class="itemtype">ACTION</i>: <span class="ACTION">t-bast to add
    a tlv to signal accepted feerate bounds in `shutdown`</span> <span
    class="details">(<a
    href='spec_meeting.2021-03-15-19.01.log.html#l-118'>t-bast</a>,
    19:30:18)</span></li>
</ol>
<br></li>
<li><b class="TOPIC">Discuss implementation priorities for 2021</b> <span class="details">(<a href='spec_meeting.2021-03-15-19.01.log.html#l-144'>t-bast</a>, 19:34:20)</span>
</li>
</ol>
<br><br>



<span class="details">
Meeting ended at 20:24:20 UTC
(<a href="spec_meeting.2021-03-15-19.01.log.html">full logs</a>).</span>

<br><br>



<h3>Action items</h3>
<ol>
  <li>t-bast to add a tlv to signal accepted feerate bounds in `shutdown`</li>
</ol>
<br><br>



<h3>Action items, by person</h3>
<ol>
  <li> t-bast <ol>
    <li>t-bast to add a tlv to signal accepted feerate bounds in `shutdown`</li>
  </ol></li>
</ol>
<br><br>



<h3>People present (lines said)</h3>
<ol>
  <li>t-bast (81)</li>
  <li>roasbeef (66)</li>
  <li>ariard (42)</li>
  <li>niftynei (33)</li>
  <li>rusty (19)</li>
  <li>joost (13)</li>
  <li>cdecker (10)</li>
  <li>ThomasV (5)</li>
  <li>lndbot (4)</li>
  <li>lndev-bot (3)</li>
  <li>bitconner (2)</li>
  <li>jkczyz (1)</li>
  <li>gribble (1)</li>
</ol>
<br><br>



<span class="details">Generated by <a href="http://www.foss-eda.org/">MeetBot</a> 0.1.4.</span>
</body></html>
