=========================================
#lightning-dev: jun-7 lightning spec chat
=========================================


Meeting started by niftynei at 20:07:51 UTC.  The full logs are
available at
https://lightningd.github.io/meetings/jun_7_lightning_spec_chat/2021/jun_7_lightning_spec_chat.2021-06-07-20.07.log.html
.



Meeting summary
---------------

* LINK: https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lightning-rfc/pull/877 ?
  (rusty, 20:08:41)
* remove htlc amount restriction  (niftynei, 20:09:06)
  * LINK: https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lightning-rfc/pull/877
    (niftynei, 20:09:11)
  * ACTION: t-bast (?) to add flag to PR  (niftynei, 20:18:07)
  * ACTION: rusty to check LND's params via testnet  (niftynei,
    20:18:17)

* concretize output ordering to be less confusing  (niftynei, 20:20:15)
  * LINK: https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lightning-rfc/pull/876
    (niftynei, 20:20:19)
  * ACTION: merge PR 876  (niftynei, 20:23:05)
  * LINK: https://github.com/rust-bitcoin/rust-lightning/issues/927
    (jkczyz, 20:23:15)

* BOLT 2: quiescence protocol  (niftynei, 20:26:50)
  * LINK: https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lightning-rfc/pull/869
    (niftynei, 20:26:56)
  * ACTION: rusty to update spec; mention lack of leave-stfu in
    rationale + clarify initiator selection  (niftynei, 20:36:20)
  * LINK: https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lightning-rfc/pull/868 ?
    (rusty, 20:37:18)

* bolt 2: upgrade protocol on reestablish  (niftynei, 20:37:26)
  * LINK: https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lightning-rfc/pull/868
    (niftynei, 20:37:33)
  * ACTION: rusty to put feature bit into the PR, make quiescence depend
    on it.  (rusty, 20:48:28)
  * ACTION: what rusty said ;)  (niftynei, 20:48:58)
  * ACTION: rusty to put feature bit into the PR, make quiescence depend
    on it.  (niftynei, 20:49:07)

* proposal: added funding timeout recovery proposal (KEYOLO)  (niftynei,
  20:50:27)
  * LINK: https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lightning-rfc/pull/866
    (niftynei, 20:50:32)
  * LINK: https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lightning-rfc/pull/854
    (niftynei, 20:51:26)
  * ACTION: close #866 in favor of #854  (niftynei, 20:52:33)

* clarify about length of an `r` field in invoice  (niftynei, 20:53:36)
  * LINK: <BlueMatt> didnt we discuss this last time or two times ago
    and decide against the keyolo variant (after having been weakly in
    favor the week before)?   (niftynei, 20:53:38)
  * LINK: https://github.com/lightningnetwork/lightning-rfc/pull/865
    (niftynei, 20:53:47)



Meeting ended at 21:03:20 UTC.



Action items, by person
-----------------------

* rusty
  * rusty to check LND's params via testnet
  * rusty to update spec; mention lack of leave-stfu in rationale +
    clarify initiator selection
  * rusty to put feature bit into the PR, make quiescence depend on it.
  * what rusty said ;)
  * rusty to put feature bit into the PR, make quiescence depend on it.
* **UNASSIGNED**
  * t-bast (?) to add flag to PR
  * merge PR 876
  * close #866 in favor of #854



People present (lines said)
---------------------------

* niftynei (62)
* rusty (55)
* BlueMatt (17)
* jkczyz (7)
* sstone (5)
* michaelfolkson (3)
* lndev-bot (3)



Generated by `MeetBot`_ 0.1.4